📘 User Instructions for the File Change Monitoring Tool

Welcome to the File Change Monitoring Tool, a user-friendly application designed to monitor selected text files in real-time, providing immediate insights into any modifications. This tool is ideal for developers, system administrators, and anyone needing to track changes in critical files.

1. Installation and Setup

Prerequisites:

    Ensure that Python is installed on your system.

    Install the required libraries by running the following command in your terminal or command prompt:

pip install -r requirements.txt

Running the Application:

    Execute the application by double-clicking the executable file, or

    Run the script directly through your Python development environment.

2. Selecting a File to Monitor

Upon launching the application:

    File Path Entry: Enter the full path of the text file you wish to monitor in the provided text field.

    Browse Function: Alternatively, click the "Browse" button to open a file dialog and select the desired file from your system.

Example: To monitor a file named myfile.txt, navigate to its location and select it.

3. Initiating Monitoring

After selecting the file:

    Click the "Start Monitoring" button to commence monitoring.

    The application will compute the file’s SHA-256 hash to establish a baseline for detecting changes.

Note: Monitoring encompasses both content alterations and hash signature discrepancies.

4. Viewing Detected Changes

If the monitored file undergoes modifications:

    The application will display:

        Timestamp: Date and time of the detected change.

        Change Details: Including the line number, previous content, and updated content.

These details are presented in the result area at the bottom of the application window, facilitating easy review.

5. Terminating Monitoring

To stop monitoring:

    Simply close the application window.

Note: Closing the application halts all monitoring activities.

6. Additional Features

    Alert Notifications: Configure the application to send email or Telegram alerts upon detecting changes.

    Scheduled Scans: Set up periodic scans based on file sensitivity levels (High, Medium, Low).

    Backup and Recovery: The tool automatically creates backups of the original file, allowing restoration if necessary.